I have a lot of respect for a lot of the Civil
Liberties Union positions and the people that
work with it. Of course some of their positions I
don't agree with at all. I'm not concerned about
the rights of Ku Klux Klan people. I'm not
concerned about the rights of Nazi Party people.
I'm not concerned about the rights of John Birch
people.
But as a whole, I think the ACLU is a very good
institution with a lot of good work. I think a legal
education really helps a person examine the
relationships between things. If you're not
careful, you go to college and you get channeled
into too narrow a focus, and you don't begin to
understand the connections between economics,
history, government, law, literature,
engineering, business, In fact, our society too
much wants us to become so-called experts. But
then as you go along, I just read a business section
paper the other day, they want more lawyers now
because they're generalists, what they call
generalists. They do understand more of the
interconnections between various problems.
It really taught me a lot, my legal education. law
professors, not that they taught me that much law,
but they sure taught me a lot about how to analyze
things and how to
develop a good shit detector. I mean, you find out
there's always 42 sides to a story if somebody's
glib enough and articulate enough and you can come
up with some crazy theory that will support
anything.
What else we got? Here we go.
What was the concept of the split rail?
Maybe I just better wrap out as briefly as I can what
the rail was, how it occurred, and what it was
about. And out of that, you might get the answer to
that. Because it never was written down, or it
never, unfortunately, never was well enough
conceived and understood for it to hold together.
So it was different things to different people, I
guess is what I'm trying to say. The Split Rail Inn
was a very famous and well-liked honky-tonk here
in town. It was started after the Second World War.
It so happens by a second cousin of mine who I didn't
know until years later, was gay. And he started
that bar and did a good job of decorating it. It was a
drive-in restaurant. They sold hamburgers,
fish, and all. He was in the military area during
the Second World War, and they put up bamboo. They
had a bamboo garden area. And then they used
parachutes from the Second World War that they
draped over a frame, where finally they put picnic
tables. And people would come here and drink beer,
and a lot of veterans. He started that place. He
also started another place that was well known
here in Austin for years, the New Orleans. And then
several years after that, he killed himself. I
don't think he ever worked out his sexuality and
relationship with society. Too bad he didn't live
to now. A lot of those problems are being worked out
or much better addressed. But the Split Rail Inn
started out as a drive-in restaurant beer joint.
During the 60s, it more or less got converted to a
music place. Threadgill, the old man, used to have
a little gas station out there. We'd yodel like
Jimmy Rogers. You all familiar with Jimmy Rogers,
who he is or was? He was singing breakman blues, a
lot of yodeling. Threadgill sings like that, did.
Threadgill started singing out at the Split Rail
Inn. It became very popular. He'd play once a week.
And they started having other groups. The guy that
was a bar owner of them was a typical American small
business man, very greedy, and let's get it on,
bring your money, and I'll get you drunk, and you be
quite nice, and I won't hurt you. And then he... But
it had kind of a loose atmosphere. And socially, it
played a pretty significant role during the late
60s and early 70s when I was talking about that
clash between hippies and rednecks. And there was
a wide variety of people that came to the split
rail. And there was lots of tension there between
the long hairs and the rednecks. But that got
worked out. And without too many fistfights or
physical brutalities, lots of verbal abuse. But a
lot of that got worked out. And those people became
friends. began to do things together politically
and socially and sexually. And that was the kind of
place it was. It was very open-minded. And you'd
find state senators there and lobbyists, and
you'd find YNOs, and bikers, and hippies, and goat
ropers, and Marxists, and the whole schmear. I
mean, it was a very good place. And it changed
ownership several times. And each time it became
more focused as a music place. A lot of good
musicians played there when they first came to
Austin. The Bonds, I don't know if you know Stevie
Bonds, those guys played there back when they were
first starting out. Of course, didn't vibrate.
Marshall Ball, who used to be Freda and the Fire
Dogs, she used to play there. And I could go on and
on. A bunch of groups used to. When they first came
to Austin, that's one of the places they played.
And
of course, I'd been going there for years. As I
said, I used to drink heavily. I wasn't active
politically or with friends or lovers, and I was
usually drinking at a bar, listening to music. And
at one point in my life,
for about nine years, I lived with and loved a woman
named Bobbi Nelson, who's a very fine person, a
lawyer, an activist, a revolutionary, and a heavy
feminist organizer. We're no longer together. In
fact, she's married now to another man. But Bobbi
and I were living together. We had a big house out in
the university area. And we had a number of people
that lived with us. And they were all highly
active, highly articulate, tense people. At one
point, I was without a job. She wanted to quit
practicing law, did quit practicing law finally
after we got the split rail. I went to work at the
split rail. I lost my job as a painter. I painted
apartments for a couple of years. And I was out of a
job, and I went out to see the guy who owned it. He
used to be one
of the top dogs in state bureaucracy over here, and
he got fed up. said to hell with it and went and
bought the split rail. At any rate, he gave me a job.
I went to work there. Jim Parrish was his name, and
he's from a wealthy family. I didn't know that at
the time, but he's from a wealthy family down in
Corpus. Bobby knew that because Bobby originally
came from Corpus and went to high school with
Parrish.
Time passed. He decided to close the rail down.
We...
We'd been talking for a number of years that we
wanted to have a restaurant, a bar, a music place, a
counterculture place where you could have art and
media and people getting together and talking
about their lives and what they wanted to do and
what they didn't like and so forth. And we never
could find one. Of course, you always got the
problem of money in this society, and it's a
heavy-duty problem unless you want to sell your
soul and screw a lot of folks. At any rate, finally,
he closed it down and We had a group of three or four.
I don't want to go into all this detail. It would
take too long and it's very painful. There were
three or four of us that had met for several weeks,
probably six or seven weeks, talking about the
concepts of the place and how it ought to be run. We
didn't have the split rail at that time. We were
talking generally. There were three women. from
the university area activists. I can't even
remember how to block their names. It's a hell of a
thing to say. Because we ended up in a fight out
there, and they ended up contrary to my position
and Bobby's position. But they were very fine
activists. They had a lot of respect for them. The
split rail, we kept talking to Jim Parrish, the
owner, you know, we'd like to buy it or it's
possible for us to open it up. He didn't want to
reopen it. He was having some problems with the
alcoholic beverage commission. And
eventually, he decided that,
and he was leasing it from me, a person who owned the
basic lease from the landowner, if you follow me on
all this. Eventually, Parrish said, y'all take
the place. He gave it to us, which was a hell of a
thing to do. It was worth probably on the normal
business market, $25,000, $30,000. It had eight
years to go on the lease. Part of the building was
over 100 years old. There used to be a stage
crossing down there. Of course, it got burned
down. Eventually, the bikers burned us down. But
he let us have the lease, and he said, and we were
good friends by then, and of course he knew Bobby,
but Jim and I were good friends, and he said, you
know, if y'all make it three or four years from now,
you can give me $5,000 or $10,000. I said, okay,
we'll do that. But we had to enter into the lease
agreement with the person who had the basic lease
and follow all the regulations of the lease, and we
had to borrow money, and most of that was done on
Bobby's credit. I didn't have any credit by this
time, and I have credit now. I lost all my credit
cards and credit in 1964, about eight credit cards
and about $25,000 down the tubes when I dropped out
of the Liberal Democrat business. So Bobby is the
one who came up with most of the credit. We had this
group of people who wanted to do this thing. Of
course, we knew this was different than starting a
new place. This is a place with a lot of history, a
lot of tradition.
has been there and is well known in serving a
certain function. We put together a group of
people and we did it very quickly which in my view
later turned out to have serious problems with it
because people got into it with different ideas
about what it was about and what was permitted and
not permitted and who makes decisions and all that
but it was run on the idea was that everybody
participate that works there and that everybody
makes the same and all decisions be made by general
discussion and general decision, a new left
concept. In other words, it wasn't to be done by
following parliamentary procedures and strict
votes. Of course, there are conflicts
between trying to run any kind of an operation like
that and trying to do a day-to-day business. I
mean, there's natural tensions. There's certain
things that have to be done. These are the things
that eventually we've got to work out as far as our
society goes, I think. So
I guess I was kind of a manager. We had three or four
or five of us, I forget how many, that all had access
to the checkbook, signed checks, that kind of
thing. But if questions came up and needed a
decision immediately, I made the decision, if
there hadn't been already some policy or
statement made concerning that thing. We tried
to, and we did for a long time, do a pretty fair job as
far as the menus, the type of food, good
vegetables, not canned stuff, not bad product,
but well done.
We broadened the music variety. Eventually, that
was one of the tension spots about how much country
music, how much of this, how much of that.
Which bands do you have? How do you handle fights or
potential fights? How do you handle a lot of
sexist, macho cursing activity? We had pretty
good policy about that. I mean, none of that was, as
far as our policy goes, was tolerating men fuck up,
they're supposed to leave, which is one of the
reasons it eventually got us crosswise with some
of the backers who have down the road burned us down
after we had barred them from coming there.
So, I mean, the concept of the split rail was that it
was to be owned
and operated by that group of people who put it
together. After the big argument came down
between me, to a large extent, with Bobby, but me to
a large extent on one hand, and a good many of the
staff who had worked at the Sprint Rail before were
not from the university activist area. And some of
the activists, that was the group that kind of
identified with where Bobby and I were coming
from. We did not want too many changes too quick as
far as the type of music, type of menu. Soybeans,
fuck that. You know, all kinds of what you might
think of as silly arguments about what food's
gonna be served and what isn't. And then on the
other hand, I guess 60% of the people on the staff
who came more or less from the university. And a lot
of it was about how much responsibility you had to
that activity. I mean, that was a big conflict with
me, because there were several of the people who
wanted to have a major voice in how the split rail
was run, but they did not spend that much time on
staff out there. They also had other jobs or other
things going as far as student life goes. And we had
problems about that. Big problems.
All of that got intensified to the point where we
had a major break. They threw us out. Bobby and I
went off and spent a couple days thinking about
what are we gonna do or what should we do and how do we
do it? And we finally decided that we had to take it
back over. We were legally responsible. and
financially responsible as far as the debts. And
all of it, what was going on was a learning process,
too, by the way. I mean, we didn't know, a lot of us
didn't know shit from China about how you handle
all the different taxing agencies and how you keep
these records. A lot of dispute going on about
whether we were making a profit. We weren't close
to making a profit because we, you've got to, if you
know much about business, you're the business
one, you know, Most businesses have regular
accounts that you systematically pay into so that
when the time comes, you've got to pay the tax man or
pay this so that you've got the money there. And
that ain't no profit. That's a liability, I think,
as far as bookkeeping goes. But it ain't money to be
spent. Don't mess with it. But we had those kind of
arguments. And we figured that, plus we figured,
well, we thought that it would go down
financially. and that it would also go down as far
as its role in the community. Most of the people
that came to Split Rail identified with where we
were coming from as far as what they wanted as far as
music and venue. Most of the other group, the
predominant group in our structure, were for more
changes, more changes rapidly. All of us were for
changes. All of us wanted a chance to form Abbott.
It's a question of how fast. There we go. We had a
major fight. We got the police to finally throw
them out. The alternative to that was to throw them
out physically, which we could have done because,
as I say, most of the split rail clientele
identified where we were coming from, most of the
working people, the bikers and the laborers and a
little bit of everyone. We didn't want to do it. We
weren't willing to do it. It would have been bloody
because they didn't like where a lot of them were
coming from. We had a number of gay people on staff.
It could have been real shitty. So we decided to use
police and did, which we were severely instilled
to this day or severely criticized for using to
oust them because we were the legal proprietors.
And then picket lines after that, and it went on and
on. Sadly, very sadly, it caused a major split in
the Austin left at that time. Of course, the Austin
left was already having severe problems with
sectarianism and sexism and a lot of other things.
But a lot of friendships were split up and
heavy-duty criticism back and forth, some of
which still exist today. And that was, I don't
know, seven, eight, nine years ago. Oh, and it
makes me very sad.
And I don't think either side was right or wrong in
any absolute sense. It was like all tough
problems. It was a mixed kettle of fish. You want to
go on, or? Yeah, I'm fine. If I'm not boring you out
or not running out of time. What were the goals?
Communes? And were you a member? And why the whole
concept of communism? You discussed that earlier
a little bit.
Yeah. In addition to the split rail, I don't know
what you're talking about as far as what is a
commune. Okay, define commune. Yeah, the split
rail was a community. I mean, we established a
community there that was going, a group that was
going to identify and operate the split rail. So in
one sense, that was kind of a commune thing. The
only other two things I was involved with that I
remember right now One of them was Satva. Don't ask
me to spell that. I think it's a Jewish word or a
Middle Eastern word. It was the first vegetarian
restaurant, I guess, in Austin, which we did at the
University of Methodist Church, and it was done by
a group of activists.
I got into it after it was already functioning. The
University of Methodist Church had a student
union, and they had kitchen facilities, big
dining room facilities, and you could seat 200 or
300 people. cafeteria-type line, and they set up
this communal restaurant operation. At one
point, I went and worked there. It was the first
time I'd worked at a restaurant in 20 years,
although I did back in law school a long time ago.
They, there, we, I don't know,
I guess there must have been 15 or 20 of us that were
on staff, and I guess two-thirds of them were
women. And And I guess there were probably six or
eight key activists, you know, what traditions
would call leaders. But I didn't think of it that
way, and they didn't either, because the one thing
the New Left really got clear on is you've got to be
very careful about when you start bestowing the
leadership label on somebody. You're going to
screw some people up in a hurry if you're not
careful. At any rate, there were six or eight key
people, and probably two-thirds of them were
winning. And I thought it ran real well. The jobs
were rotated. In other words, you didn't get
stuck. Two days a week, you might be the
dishwasher. One day a week, you might be the chief
cook. All the jobs were rotated, except they did a
good job, I thought, of keeping tight control on
that bank account. They had two or three people
that took care of the money and the buying. regular
meetings to discuss anything anybody want to
discuss whether it was what's going on in the big
society how can we relate to it we want to have
programs here which we did occasionally we had
speakers demonstrations started out of that
place we have to organize the bus drivers union
here originally the bus drive a bus was hijacked
one time and the people that did that that work
hijacked i mean they took over a bus and took it away
and it among other things helped pressure the bus
company into recognizing the union. There were
some people who were part of that group that
organized that little effort and it worked well.
We had art things, movies, theater, plus every day
we fed everybody. And people didn't go away
hungry. I mean, you came to town and it broke. You
could always get beans and rice. I didn't like the
cooking because I'm not a vegetarian. Most of that
stuff is very bland. You've got to work like crazy
to get it very spicy. They did a good job, and it
lasted for a good while. In fact, it did so well, and
I guess I wasn't close enough to the people to
understand all the dynamics of this, Maybe it was
because of the tension inside the women's
movement at the time, but then some of the women
decided if what they really wanted to do was open up
another place. This was called Delta Diner, and it
started off as an all-women's group, four or five.
And then I think they finally had a couple of men
that worked there. And they were some of the most
talented men Two of the women, I think, used to be on
the Austin newspaper. They were writers,
some singers, dancers. They had some great songs.
They did some wild theater over there. They had a
place even more in the student neighborhood, and
there were a lot more students
that we didn't reach at the other place. But there
was a good fraternal relationship between the
Delta Banner and Sotlo. So that's another
operating commune operation I was part of. But as
far as what most people, or good many people think
of as a commune is when you live together, sleep
together in the same house. For several years, we
had a house on 31st and a half street off of
Waterloo, right out north of the university.
Owned by Bobby Nelson. and owned in the sense of
most people in the capital society. In other
words, she had mortgage payments, made payments
every month, didn't own very much equity. But
she'd had enough credit after she got out of law
school, as most young lawyers do, where you could
buy something and say you'd pay it off. So she was on
the house. And she and I were lovers and friends and
political comrades. And...
And it was a, at the time we started, it was a
three-bedroom house, had a great big living room,
dining room, big high ceilings, a fairly large
kitchen, and had a garage out back. There were two
other people that lived there. That grew, and then
Bobby's daughter, who had been maybe with her
mother out here a little time, called Lockhart, a
very small girl at that time, she came in. Bobby and
I agreed, and she came back and lived with us. There
was Bobby and I and Karen, the little girl, and then
Diana and Alice Embry, and then it grew, and grew
very much. Diana had a daughter, Chrissy. They
lived in the front room. You know Ronnie Duggar,
who started the Texas Observer? Well, at any rate,
Ronnie's got a son called Gary Duggar. Gary and
Diana used to be friends and lovers. Gary lived
there for a while. And then there were a couple,
John Muir and Diana, I mean, Alice Embry, who lived
in the back bedroom. It grew, and we were all very
active politically in the events that were going
on. always something wrong. At a big dinner table
that I made out of a sheet of pie, we had four by
eight. We could seat 12 to 20 people at that table.
And there were several of us that were good cooks.
And we had lots of organizational meetings and fun
times there. There again, we rotated jobs as far as
basic responsibility. We didn't cook every
night, but it was all worked out by the common
consensus. Naturally, it never does work
perfectly, and the men are going to fuck up more
than the women, and usually. But a lot of things got
worked out and it was a pretty good situation. The
house grew. We opened up the attic finally and put
in a bedroom and a bath up there and we opened up the
garage, put in an apartment by our bedroom with a
loft in the garage and we had some more people. I
think at one time we had about ten 10 people, all
activists, all political, none sectarian, none
liberal Democrats, but all either radicals or
revolutionaries. They're highly active.
Learned a lot. A lot of that household on the split
rail issue, it split, which is one of the things
that makes me sad because Alice Emory and John
Muir, two people that I dearly love, ended up with
contrary views to mine and Bob's about what should
be done on the split ramp. Some of that's been
healed over, but not very much. But we did, you
know, we
worked hard at being open and honest. I mean,
anybody could call a meeting. Anybody could
speak up.
If somebody was talking too much like I am, then
somebody else would. You shook a little shit
tonight. Any particular questions?
Strong points. Really to help increase the
pressure on them.
Decision makers to stop the war in Southeast Asia
were the May Day demonstrations in the early
1970s. I don't know whether y'all are familiar
with them or not, but there were massive
demonstrations in Washington, D.C. And there
were more people arrested during that period of
time than ever before in the history of the United
States. I think about 14,000 people arrested in a
three-day period. We had a sizable group from
Austin that went to that. We did a lot of intensive
work before we went. And it was called the
Armadillo Mayday Tribe. And a lot of that grew out
of that Sotva Delta Diner community. People had
got to know each other and the split rail. A bunch of
the folks had got to meet each other there. And we
had our own literature. We had our own logos,
shirts, t-shirts, all of that. We were well
organized. After we got there, it turned out we
were one of the three or four best organized groups
on the scene from out of town. And, of course, it was
a heavy-duty demonstration, lots of brutality by
the police, swinging sticks. About that long,
they were like axe handles. They weren't like
night sticks. About like a baseball bat, not quite
as big around as a baseball bat, but they didn't
give. And the fuckers were riding around in these
motorsports. bikes or on a horse, reach over and
knock the shit out of you and those things. And you
had to be organized to take care of yourself and
your friends. And we were organized in what we
thought was a very good way. We had what we called
affinity groups.
Each group, nationally, assignments were made
after we got up there, consensus agreement.
Assignments were made, each group would have a
certain target, like you're going to be at
Washington Square, or you're going to take this
bridge, or you're going to be part of the group that
does this, as far as the geographic area. And then
when it comes to the tactics, it generally fell
into two categories. Those groups of people who
are like the Quakers, who are nonviolent
pacifists, are not going to Some of them are going
to break the law, but they're going to do it in a
certain way, like just sit down and not move and get
busted. But they're not going to turn over a car or
shut down an intersection or close down a bridge.
They're not going to. And then there are groups of
folks who are going to do a variety of things. And
the only limits we had were that thou shalt not kill
or maim, in other words, draw the line, it
physically hurt him. Although we recognize that
as far as self-defense goes, that's another ball
of wax. You get the shit beat out of you, you do
whatever you need to do to change that. If you're
not a fool, in my view, I'm not going to stand to get
beat if I can help you. Inside the group that went
from Austin, we had those two same strains. So we
had it worked out where certain areas within our
big area were and targets were assigned to the
group that was going to act a certain way and then
the ones that were going to do the other things that
might be more risky legally and physically or in
the other areas where they wouldn't as much as
possible cause pain to the ones who didn't believe
that was. And what we did, and it worked out well,
because you had to worry about undercover agents.
I mean, they did have a lot of informers and some
provocateurs. There's a woman here locally that
now we know, we didn't know at the time, was a police
agent, a provocateur. And she was part of that
progressive labor group I was talking about, that
sectarian malice. She's a cop. She's a... She's
the second in command of Westinghouse Security
out here. We go to some of the same music concerts.
At any rate, to combat all of that, well, you worry
about the agents, and we had to have what we call
affinity groups. Three, four, five people would
get together that knew each other. And you have
what the convictions were and their background,
and it cuts down heavily on the possibilities
you're going to be infiltrating. And we had a
number of people, affinity groups. That worked
well. We had a number of people arrested.
It was a three-day activity up there and different
targets each day. I was arrested on the third day. I
went up ahead of, I was talking about advance work.
I went to Mayday, Washington, two weeks in advance
to help do some of the advance work as far as...
targets and logistics and all of that shit. And I
also had the responsibility after we got there to,
after the demonstration, to try to locate people
and see who was in the hospital, who was avoiding
the cops, who was busting, trying to get lawyers,
all those things. So it was my responsibility not
to get busted the first two days, but did
participate and was arrested on the third day in
the steps of the House of Representatives. And
that night, and what's funny, I get a big kick out of
it. That night, they put us in different stadiums
and sports arenas. And they had me, along with
several thousand others, in this basketball, I
don't even know what it is, basketball arena. And
they wouldn't let us down on the floor, and it was
very crowded up where we were, and we were trying to
get down there so we could sleep at night. Finally,
some of us jumped the rail and had a confrontation.
I got hit with one of those trucking clubs about
like that. I didn't hurt. I thought I'd broken my
arm. They sent me to the doctor. At any rate, I
stayed in jail there for 36 hours.
Got out, and we finished up that demonstration,
came back to Austin. And if you follow a legal
redress, after that, major lawsuits were filed by
the left and by the National Mobilization, by the
ACLU, on our behalf. Different people, different
categories, depending on when they were arrested
and how. Ten years later, or no, I guess it was about
ten years, eight or ten years later, I got $2,000
because we won. Nixon, and who was that, Haldeman,
those assholes, Some of the guys on the Supreme
Court. Anyway, we won that lawsuit, and that
$2,000 was what we used, Bobby and I, as part of the
money to start up Emma Jo's, which was our last
club, which is named after Joe Hill and Emma
Goldman. If you know your history, then you know
Joe Hill was a poet and a songwriter and a union
organizer, a wobbly, and Emma Goldman was a
revolutionary intellectual and a great woman.
two of our favorite people. And so $2,000 of
Nixon's fucking money went into starting the Emma
Jones. But that was a major demonstration. Then we
came back home,
and it was during that period of time when they were
getting ready to dedicate the LBJ library, and
fucking Nixon was coming down here. So we got
organized, and we had major demonstrations. Of
course, they, and they had, the Rockefellers and
the Rothschilds and the whole entourage of big,
rich shits who were murdering people. They had
ropes to keep us half a mile away if they could, and
we had major plans and efforts made to try to put
pressure on them. And again, allow people to do
what they wanted to do and were willing to do, those
people who wanted to get arrested or that. What's
kind of interesting on a personal level was the day
before that, of course, we were open in all of our
activities. You could come to our meetings. The
cops came. The head of the Red Squad was Bert
Gerding, who is the chief officer out at Weston
House. But he was the head of the Red Squad, the one
who was charging political activities. He'd come
to our meetings. The media would. So they knew
generally what was planned. Of course, they
couldn't break into those affinity groups who
would make their own little decisions about what
they were going to do the day before the massive
demonstration when Nixon was going to be here and
Lady Bird and all of them would sit up there and
shoot the shit at each other
we had our last pre-planning meeting over in East
Woods Park which is very close to the LBJ library
beautiful place very dense woods and we got over
there and there's the goddamn Texas Rangers so if
we'd run into them before some other
demonstration but usually they're They were
there just for the DPS, and sometimes the soldiers
just try to intimidate you. Of course, that's what
they were doing that day, too. But that day, what
they were doing, they were serving papers. And me
and, I think, seven or eight others all got served
by the Rangers with papers trying to enjoin us.
from doing anything illegal. Well, if you know
your law, you're not supposed to do anything
illegal anyway, and so really the injunction's
full of shit. Except it makes it easier for them to
throw you in jail if they don't like something
you're doing, and then they can argue later about
it on a different basis than if they didn't have the
injunction. But mainly it was to intimidate,
which if you were young and didn't know the law and
and didn't know the Texas Rangers and what their
history is, which I assume you do. I mean, they've
been used primarily by men of property that put
down the Indians and the Chicanos, and then were
used very brutally in labor and Chicano
relations. So we had that confrontation with the
Rangers there, but it...
That all worked out. And that demonstration, I
thought, was successful in the sense that there
were thousands of people involved. It was a major
occasion where all these hot dogs. See, by that
time in American history, most of those folks
could not even go out in public up close to the
public. They were all on the farm. I mean, your
fucking president, secretary of state, defense,
fuck you. But they wouldn't dare get close to the
people. They were always away from them. which in a
so-called democracy is a strange set of peaches.
And all of that was shown on television again. And
that does a good job because it shows people around
the world that they are the American people trying
to pressure these people into doing the right
thing. And that helps to build up long-term
benefits. Hopefully it helps to prevent nuclear
wars because it shows Russian people, American
people, that they're different levels. Russian
leaders and American leaders are one level, and
American people and Russian people are another
level, and all the basic interests are the same,
except when you get to those leadership levels,
and then it changes.
Okay, we're gonna talk about the media. Okay.
Describe the press coverage of the movement in
both the establishment press and the underground
press. Okay. I think the first thing to remember
about the American media, because here you're
always going to hear about freedom of speech,
press, all that bullshit. Like we don't have a
democracy. We really don't have freedom of
speech. I don't think. Because you've got to have
means and access. Excuse
me. It doesn't do me any good to go out there and make
a speech right now. Nobody's going to hear me. If
you're going to have an impact and try to get your
views across, then you've got to do it with some
type of media, either the print media or
television is a big thing now. Okay, who owns the
press? Who owns the television networks? Who owns
the radio stations? If you look into the ownership
and control of those institutions, then you know
what their social and economic, moral, religious
values are. And what you'll find is... They're all
just what you think. They're all very
conservative capitalists, like the idea that
they can accumulate all the property they want,
and if poor people starve, fuck it. That's tough,
but that's life. Or they may not like it, but they
say, well, there's nothing we can do about it.
We've just got to tolerate part of the price you
pay, which I don't believe. I think there's enough
resources and technology where we can feed and
clothe people around the world if we decide to do
it. But the media is owned by corporate
capitalists. And they decide who the editors are,
who goes on the newscast. By the way, your TV
newscasters, those people are not profound. They
are not reporters. They are actors and actresses.
They're bullshitters. They're folks that smile
pretty and string words together. But as far as
really understanding and having the experience
and access to a whole lot of information and having
done their homework 98 of them are actors and
actresses we used to have edward r murrow was an
exception during the second world war that guy
knew a lot of people knew a lot of things in other
ways that were going on he was a news person but most
of what we get on tv the newscasters are bullshits
you get involved you'll find out that's true and
most of them they take from the establishment
institutions the governors the senators major
corporations they take their pr handouts which if
you get into advertising or you know you type up to
try to get a certain attain a certain goal i mean you
want to tell a story and get people to buy your goods
then you write up new products PR list and give it to
a TV station. A lot of them, they'll say it's news,
you know, that I got a new wizard for $48 a pair. Same
way with what governors and senators and
presidents. And they let those people get by with
murder ordinarily. You will not see now, or I
haven't in years, reporters confronting the
president. That doesn't happen anymore. It did
happen when there was great pressure on in the
1960s. And some of them made life hell. for Johnson
and Nixon, but the people who own those networks
don't permit their reporters to ask those
embarrassing questions, and when Reagan
bullshits, to say, quit bullshitting. I asked
this question one, and you answered question 10. I
ain't interested in 10. What about one? They won't
let you pin the sumbitch down.
So they all play the game. Of the major networks, I
think the lineup is probably the same. The ABC
network is the farthest right. As far as part of the
ruling class, their views projected across who
they interview and how they interview and how they
handle news stories is the most right wing. It's
more in line with the Jesse Helms, Goldwater,
Reagan right. CBS and NBC. Of course, CBS is pale in
them, I think. They're more like the
Rockefeller-Kennedy establishment, Democrat
establishment, Republican, the mainstream
liberal capitalists, the ones that ABC is further
to the right. The newspapers, most of them, and of
course you know that the TVs and the radios and the
newspapers are all becoming more centralized.
They're owned by fewer and fewer people. And that
is a very dangerous thing. Very critical thing,
and it could be, I guess, I don't know. I haven't
really analyzed it. This Australian son of a
bitch, whatever his name was. Murdoch. Murdoch?
Yeah. You've got to watch that motherfucker. And
Ted Turner. You've got to watch that guy, too.
Because he's very fundamentalist,
conservative-oriented. And so as far as human
beings go, food and clothing, those are not big
issues with those folks. And they are big power
people. They are not even part of that liberal CBS,
I mean, NBC act. They're to the right of ABC. You've
got to watch out for them. Washington Post is an
establishment Democrat, the woman who owns that.
New York Times is the ultimate liberal,
Republican liberal Democrat establishment.
That's Kennedy, Rockefeller, Harvard, Yale.
menu bunch. Old, big wealth. Their views are
represented there. The underground. Of course,
what we found was that all the stuff that people are
interested in, these bastards ain't going to tell
you about it. They ain't going to write about it.
They ain't going to put it on the air. You just
screwed dude. So that's where the underground
media came from. And it happened all, it's
spontaneous. It seemed like it just happened
here, it happened there, all about the same time.
I'm not enough of an expert to know the exact
sequence as far as when the barb started and when
the rag started, all the different ones. The rag
had a big impact here in Austin, I know that. It had a
very dedicated group of people. Again, very open.
Of course, I'm talking in generality. It would
always be acceptable. That's what I'm saying.
Some of them were highly manipulative.